.\" $Header$
.\" vim:ts=4:sw=4:syntax=nroff
.fp 1 R
.fp 2 I
.fp 3 B
.fp 4 BI
.fp 5 R
.fp 6 I
.fp 7 B
.TH oratab 1M "16 Jun 1999"
.tr ~
.SH NAME
oratab \- modify/inspect oratab file
.SH SYNOPSIS
\f3oratab\f1 [\f3-y\f1|\f3-n\f1|\f3-d\f1|\f3-p\f1|\f3-h \f2ORACLE_HOME\f1] \f2ORACLE_SID\f1 
.P
\f3oratab\f1 \f3-l\f1 [\f3-p\f1] [\f3-y\f1|\f3-n\f1]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.IX "oratab" "" "\fLoratab\fP \(em print ORACLE_HOME"
\f3oratab\f1 provides a convenient way to manipulate the oratab file,
.BR oratab (4),
without need to use a text editor and a means to extract entries without
recourse to writing a shell script 
.BR awk (1)
program or similar.
.SS Edit/Print
In the first form of the command
\f2ORACLE_SID\f1 is the Oracle SID of the database upon which \f3oratab\f1 is
to act. In the absence of any other
option, \f3oratab\f1 
merely confirms, or otherwise, the presence of \f2ORACLE_SID\f1 in the
.BR oratab (4)
file; exiting with status 0 if the entry is present, 1 otherwise. In addition
if the \f3-p\f1 option is present the entry will be printed.
.P
Entries are
modified, or created, with the \f3-h\f1 option. Other options are described
below.
.SS List
The second form of the command (with the \f3-l\f1 option) lists the 
\f2ORACLE_SID\f1s for valid entries found in the oratab file. With the
\f3-p\f1 option the entire line is listed rather than just the \f2ORACLE_SID\f1.
With the \f3-y\f1 option only those entries for which the start flag
is set to "Y" are listed, and with the \f3-n\f1 option only those entries
for which the start flag is "N" are listed.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP 
\f3\-y\f1
Set the startup flag to "Y". See
.BR oratab (4).
If \f3-l\f1 is present only consider
entries where the start flag is "Y".
.TP 
\f3\-n\f1
Set the startup flag to "N". See 
.BR oratab (4).
If \f3-l\f1 is present only consider
entries where the start flag is "N".
.TP
\f3\-d\f1
Delete the entry for this \f2ORACLE_SID\f1. If the entry was not present
the return code is 1. If the entry was successfully removed 0 is returned.
.TP 
\f3\-p\f1
Print the entry for this \f2ORACLE_SID\f1. Returns 0 if entry found, as well
as the entry itself or 1 if the entry is not found. If \f3-l\f1 is present 
print entire line rather than just the \f2ORACLE_SID\f1.
.TP 
\f3\-h \f2ORACLE_HOME\f1
Change the \f2ORACLE_HOME\f1 for this entry, or add this entry if not present.
.SH FILES
.TP 30
\f5/var/opt/oracle/oratab\f1
oratab file on System V.4
.TP 30
\f5/etc/oratab\f1
oratab file on other systems
.PD
.SH AUTHOR
Simon Anthony (simon.a.anthony@oracle.com)
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR dbhome (1),
.BR oraenv (1),
.BR oratab (4)
.SH NOTES
.P
This command is usually installed set-uid "oracle" and is only executable by the owner or 
members of the "dba" group.
.P
\f3oratab\f1 locks the oratab file to prevent simultaneous update.
.BR fcntl (2)
locking is used.
